pages/docs/banmanager/install-network.mdx, before:

---
layout: 'docs'
title: 'Install (on multiple servers)'
navTitle: 'Install (on multiple servers)'
category: 'Getting Started'
description: 'Install and configure BanManager across multiple Minecraft servers and networks.'
---
A full guide for installing, configuring and running BanManager for use on a Minecraft network. If you're unsure which option is best, try our [configuration builder](/docs/banmanager/config-builder)!

## Prerequisites
- Java 8+

---

## Option 1 - BungeeCord or Velocity
**Requirement:** you're using BungeeCord or Velocity and would like punishments to be **shared across every Minecraft server**

Note: Report functionality is not available on the proxy plugin versions

### Initial Setup
1. Download the BanManager BungeeCord or Velocity jar from our [downloads page](/download) and save it in an easily accessible location
1. Copy the BanManager jar file to your proxy's `plugins` folder
1. Fully restart your proxy
    * This is required to generate the default configuration files and enable BanManager
1. Check your server logs to confirm BanManager enables correctly

## Option 2 - Alternative networks
**Requirement:** you're using a proxy such as LilyPad and would like punishments to be **shared across every Minecraft server**

Currently only BungeeCord & Velocity have first class support, however alternative networks such as LilyPad *are supported* by installing BanManager on each Minecraft instance (CraftBukkit/Spigot/Paper/Fabric/Sponge) using the same shared database to sync data.

### Prerequisites
- MySQL or MariaDB

### Setup
1. Download the BanManager jar from our [downloads page](/download) and save it in an easily accessible location
1. Copy the BanManager jar file to your server `plugins` folder (CraftBukkit/Spigot/Paper) or `mods` folder (Fabric/Sponge)
1. Fully restart your minecraft server
    * This is required to generate the default configuration files
1. Open `config.yml`, find `databases` and under the `local` section, set `storageType` to `mysql` or `mariadb`. Then populate `host`, `name`, `user` & `password` with your connection details.
1. Save the file and then restart your minecraft server. Check the server logs to confirm the plugin has enabled correctly.
1. Open [schedules.yml](/docs/banmanager/configuration/schedules-yml) and configure `scheduler` values as necessary. The defaults suffice for most installations.
1. Open [console.yml](/docs/banmanager/configuration/console-yml) and change only the `name` value to help identify which server issued issued punishments via the console.
    * It is important this file is generated by each server, **do not copy and paste** it between servers
1. Perform the previous steps for every Minecraft server using the same database.

## Option 3 - Individual punishments per server and global bans
**Requirement:** you're running a network but would like bans and other punishments to be specific to each server whilst still having the ability to globally punish players

### Prerequisites
- MySQL or MariaDB

### Setup
1. Follow steps 1 - 4 and 7 from [Option 2](#option-2) for each server.
1. Use either a **different database** or **different table names** per server when configuring `databases` `local` options.
    * Using the same database can allow sharing of certain punishments and not others, e.g. to share notes use the same `playerNotes` table name across all installations; this is optional.
1. Open `config.yml`, find `databases` and under the `global` section, set `enabled` to `true` and set `storageType` to `mysql` or `mariadb`. Then populate `host`, `name`, `user` & `password` with your connection details.
    * Each server must use the **same** `global` database and table names.
    * This enables [/*all](/docs/banmanager/commands#global-commands) commands e.g. `/banall`. Use these to punish a player globally.
    * Note: Each server will poll the global database for punishments. Upon finding a new punishment, said punishments are then issued on the individual server. This means global punishments are not instant and the delay depends on the [external*](/docs/banmanager/configuration/schedules-yml#externalplayerbans) timings defined in every server's [schedules.yml](/docs/banmanager/configuration/schedules-yml) file.
1. Restart each minecraft server. Check the server logs to confirm the plugin has enabled correctly.

Commit message:

feat(commands): enhance command options and permissions; add new features for tempmute and kickall commands

pages/docs/banmanager/install-network.mdx, after:

---
layout: 'docs'
title: 'Install (on multiple servers)'
navTitle: 'Install (on multiple servers)'
category: 'Getting Started'
description: 'Install and configure BanManager across multiple Minecraft servers and networks.'
---
A full guide for installing, configuring and running BanManager for use on a Minecraft network. If you're unsure which option is best, try our [configuration builder](/docs/banmanager/config-builder)!

## Prerequisites
- Java 8+

---

## Option 1 - BungeeCord or Velocity
**Requirement:** you're using BungeeCord or Velocity and would like punishments to be **shared across every Minecraft server**

Note: Report functionality is not available on the proxy plugin versions

### Initial Setup
1. Download the BanManager BungeeCord or Velocity jar from our [downloads page](/download) and save it in an easily accessible location
1. Copy the BanManager jar file to your proxy's `plugins` folder
1. Fully restart your proxy
    * This is required to generate the default configuration files and enable BanManager
1. Check your server logs to confirm BanManager enables correctly

### Velocity-specific Configuration
Velocity has an additional configuration file [`velocity.yml`](/docs/banmanager/configuration/velocity-yml) with the following options:
- `features.commands` - Enable/disable BanManager commands on the proxy
- `features.forceEnableMute` - Force enable mute support without [SignedVelocity](https://modrinth.com/plugin/signedvelocity)

For mute functionality on Minecraft 1.19.1+, you should either install the [SignedVelocity](https://modrinth.com/plugin/signedvelocity) plugin or set `forceEnableMute: true` in `velocity.yml`.

## Option 2 - Alternative networks
**Requirement:** you're using a proxy such as LilyPad and would like punishments to be **shared across every Minecraft server**

Currently only BungeeCord & Velocity have first class support, however alternative networks such as LilyPad *are supported* by installing BanManager on each Minecraft instance (CraftBukkit/Spigot/Paper/Fabric/Sponge) using the same shared database to sync data.

### Prerequisites
- MySQL or MariaDB

### Setup
1. Download the BanManager jar from our [downloads page](/download) and save it in an easily accessible location
1. Copy the BanManager jar file to your server `plugins` folder (CraftBukkit/Spigot/Paper) or `mods` folder (Fabric/Sponge)
1. Fully restart your minecraft server
    * This is required to generate the default configuration files
1. Open `config.yml`, find `databases` and under the `local` section, set `storageType` to `mysql` or `mariadb`. Then populate `host`, `name`, `user` & `password` with your connection details.
1. Save the file and then restart your minecraft server. Check the server logs to confirm the plugin has enabled correctly.
1. Open [schedules.yml](/docs/banmanager/configuration/schedules-yml) and configure `scheduler` values as necessary. The defaults suffice for most installations.
1. Open [console.yml](/docs/banmanager/configuration/console-yml) and change only the `name` value to help identify which server issued issued punishments via the console.
    * It is important this file is generated by each server, **do not copy and paste** it between servers
1. Perform the previous steps for every Minecraft server using the same database.

## Option 3 - Individual punishments per server and global bans
**Requirement:** you're running a network but would like bans and other punishments to be specific to each server whilst still having the ability to globally punish players

### Prerequisites
- MySQL or MariaDB

### Setup
1. Follow steps 1 - 4 and 7 from [Option 2](#option-2) for each server.
1. Use either a **different database** or **different table names** per server when configuring `databases` `local` options.
    * Using the same database can allow sharing of certain punishments and not others, e.g. to share notes use the same `playerNotes` table name across all installations; this is optional.
1. Open `config.yml`, find `databases` and under the `global` section, set `enabled` to `true` and set `storageType` to `mysql` or `mariadb`. Then populate `host`, `name`, `user` & `password` with your connection details.
    * Each server must use the **same** `global` database and table names.
    * This enables [/*all](/docs/banmanager/commands#global-commands) commands e.g. `/banall`. Use these to punish a player globally.
    * Note: Each server will poll the global database for punishments. Upon finding a new punishment, said punishments are then issued on the individual server. This means global punishments are not instant and the delay depends on the [external*](/docs/banmanager/configuration/schedules-yml#externalplayerbans) timings defined in every server's [schedules.yml](/docs/banmanager/configuration/schedules-yml) file.
1. Restart each minecraft server. Check the server logs to confirm the plugin has enabled correctly.
